# GreenfootGame
A simple top down Roguelike using Greenfoot.

## Table of contents
* [General info](#general-info)
* [Technologies](#technologies)
* [Setup](#setup)
* [Engine](#the-engine)
* [Addon scripts](#addon-scripts)
* [data.nbt](#data.nbt)
* [Noised map generation](#noised-map-generation)
* [Contributers](#contributers)

## General info
This a simple top down Roguelike game based on Greenfoot (not anymore).

## Technologies 
Project created with:  
Java 12  
No longer Greenfoot: 3.6.0
Python 3.9.0
Way too much pain

## Setup
Download the Pungeon.jar file. (includes full source code and documentation)
or download the Pungeon_light.jar (only compiled code)
Install Java 12 or higher from somewhere on the internet.  
If you are unsure which version of java is installed on your pc, run 'java -version'. 
If your defined java version is older, but you have a newer jdk present on your pc, run 'C:\path\to\jdk-version\bin\java.exe -jar Pungeon.jar'
Run the jar file either via double-click or 'java -jar Pungeon.jar'
Annotation when running the jar for the first time:
Extracting the assets may take (a literal) minute. Don't worry if nothing is happening when starting the game the first time.
If you have any idea how to improve the extraction to make it faster, message us.

## The Engine
The engine used is selfbuild. 
When the project was first created, Greenfoot was used as an engine, but throughout the project, we noticed the huge amount of flaws, and unavailabilities present in the Engine.
Therefore we decided to write our own engine similar to Greenfoot but more accessible for advanced operations.
The Engine is now available on [Github](https://github.com/KommentatorForAll/Gfe) on Kommentators Github account. 
Its functions are quite similar to the one from Greenfoot, therefore making it easy to replace code fractions to make any Greenfoot project run on this advanced Engine.
While that, the engine supports more advanced operations, which are unavailable for Greenfoot, such as async key events in addition to the sync isKeyDown() operations, or Buttons and further Image manipulation or font loading.

## Addon scripts
The addonscripts (mapbuilder, nbt_injector) are scripts, written in python.
They are NOT required for the game to work, but are tools for the devs and modders to create new weapons, maps etc. more easily.
The mapbulider are tools, which convert images to .world files, which can be injected into the data.nbt file using the nbt_injector.

## data.nbt
the file data.nbt stores all data except save files. This includes weapons, items, enemies, the world and a lot more. 
NBT or Named Binary Tag is a File format used by the game [Minecraft](https://minecraft.net) and can be opened using an nbteditor such as [NBTExplorer](https://github.com/jaquadro/NBTExplorer/releases/tag/v2.8.0-win)
They store data in a semi-compressed state, where only the information present is written and no empty information bulks, but the file itself isn't compressed further.

## Noised map generation
The rooms of the dungeon don't always look the same. They always look different, even if the connections are the same.
This is due to generation noise, which is defined in the data.nbt (inside the compound tag 'generationnoise') and is applied, each time a screen is generated by the world generation.

## Contributers
-ThomasWagner-dev
[Github](https://github.com/ThomasWagner-dev)
Discord: Screxo#9594

-Commentator2.0
[Github](https://github.com/KommentatorForAll)
Discord: Commentator2.0#2755

-Klaus
[Github](https://github.com/Klaus341)
Discord: Klaus#0131